chore: Add documentation for graindoc (#280)
grain-lang/grain-lang.org: src/tooling/grain_doc.md

Here's a quick example of adding a doc block to your grain code:
```gr
/**
 * An alias for normal syntactic array access, i.e. `array[n]`.
 *
 * Retrieves the element from the array at the specified index.
 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

## Usage

Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above a type declaration or exported value. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep module internals private.

You can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate markdown documentation for your code. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Without doc blocks

You can even use `grain doc` without doc blocks in your code. It will still generate simple documentation for data types and exported values, such as displaying their names and type signatures.

```

```gr
/**
 * @history version description
 */
```

## Extra Annotations

### @module
The `@module` annotation allows you to add header documentation to a module. A module docblock can also contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` annotations. Our `array` module is a good example of this:
```gr
/***
 * @module Array: Utilities for working with arrays.
 *
 * @example import Array from "array"
 *
 * @since v0.2.0
 * @history v0.1.0: Originally named `arrays`
 * @history v0.2.0: Renamed to `array`
 */
```

### @section
The `@section` annotation is used as a grouping mechanism. Any docblocks between a section and the next are grouped under that header. In the standard library documentation, we use these to separate “Types” and “Values”:
```gr
/***
 * @section Values: Functions for working with the Array data type.
 */
```

### @deprecated
From time to time, we’ll need to deprecate things in the standard library. In fact, we’ve already had deprecations in the v0.3.x releases that will be removed in v0.4. This has led us to add the `@deprecated` annotation that will produce a warning with the deprecation message.

> ## Without Annotations
> Even if decide not to add annotations to your code, running the generator will still output function names and type signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Moving this up to a note in Usage

---
title: grain doc
---

> ## When To use GrainDoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> `graindoc` is a documentation generator for grain built directly into the compiler similar to [`TSDOC`](https://tsdoc.org/) you can add a comment directly to your source files alongside the code which the generator can use to generate markdown files that are able to be displayed to users. The primary goal of `graindoc` is to simplify the creation of docs throughout your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grain ships with a documentation generator built directly into the compiler!

You may be used to similar tools, such as `JSDoc`, that allow you add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.

In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full-power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and insert into the output. 🎉
```

You may be used to similar tools, such as `JSDoc`, that allow you to add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.

> In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full-power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and inserts them into the output. 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and inserts them into the output. 🎉
```

Here's a quick example of adding a doc block to your grain code:
```gr
/**
 * An alias for normal syntactic array access, i.e. `array[n]`.
 *
 * Retrieves the element from the array at the specified index.
 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

## Usage

> Before running `grain doc`, you'll need to add the doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above your type declaration or exported values. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep internals private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add the doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above your type declaration or exported values. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep internals private.
```

"want" instead of "need" because you can run the command without any comments

> After adding doc block comments to your source code, you can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate the documentation. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate markdown documentation for your code, you can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate the documentation. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Without doc blocks

You can even use `grain doc` without doc blocks in your code. It will still generate simple documentation for data types and exported values, such as displaying their names and type signatures.

## Annotations

### @param

> The `@param` annotation indicates a parameter to the function. These should be specified in order of the function parameters and the name specified before the colon (`:`) must match the parameter name exactly. The content after the colon is the description of the parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@param` annotation indicates a parameter to the function. These should be specified in order of the function parameters and the name specified before the colon (`:`) should match the parameter name exactly—while not enforced currently, it will be required for named parameters in the future. The content after the colon is the description of the parameter.

When generating docs, the type of the parameter will be detected by the compiler and inserted into the parameters table.
```

---
title: grain doc
---

Grain ships with a documentation generator built directly into the compiler!

You may be used to similar tools, such as `JSDoc`, that allow you to add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.

> In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full-power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and insert into the output. 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full-power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and inserts them into the output. 🎉
```

Here's a quick example of adding a doc block to your grain code:
```gr
/**
 * An alias for normal syntactic array access, i.e. `array[n]`.
 *
 * Retrieves the element from the array at the specified index.
 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

> ## Using GrainDoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> ### How to use GrainDoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Graindoc is rather simple to use you start by adding the graindoc comments marked by `/** */` note the generator only generates documentation for exports of a module to your code and then you run `grain doc <file> -o <file>` to generate the documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running `grain doc`, you'll need to add the doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above your type declaration or exported values. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep internals private.

After adding doc block comments to your source code, you can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate the documentation. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.
```

> ### The Benefits Of GrainDoc
> The benefits of tools like graindoc vs hand generated documentation is, Graindoc can actually use Grain’s strong type system in order to figure out the specific types of these and inject them into the output! Your type signatures will always be up-to-date with Graindoc because compilers are much better at type systems than humans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I like this, but I think we can drop it. Maybe we can mention "Your type signatures will always be up-to-date with Graindoc because compilers are much better at type systems than humans." to explain why `@param` or `@return` don't need types (below).

---
title: grain doc
---

Grain ships with a documentation generator built directly into the compiler!

You may be used to similar tools, such as `JSDoc`, that allow you to add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.

In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full-power of the compiler. You won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them and insert into the output. 🎉

> ### An Example Of Grain Doc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a quick example of adding a doc block to your grain code:
```

 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

## Usage

Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above a type declaration or exported value. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep module internals private.

You can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate markdown documentation for your code. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.

### Without doc blocks

You can even use `grain doc` without doc blocks in your code. It will still generate simple documentation for data types and exported values, such as displaying their names and type signatures.

## Annotations

### @param

```gr
/**
 * @param name: description

>  */

Reviewer: ````suggestion
 */
```
````

## Annotations

### @param

```gr
/**
 * @param name: description
 */
```
The `@param` annotation indicates a parameter to the function that the doc block is documenting.

These should be specified in order of the function parameters and the name specified before the colon (`:`) should match the parameter name exactly—while not currently enforced, it will be required for named parameters in the future. The content after the colon is the description of the parameter.

When generating docs, the type of the parameter will be detected by the compiler and inserted into the parameters table.

### @returns

```gr
/**
 * @returns description
 */
```

The `@returns` annotation indicates the return of the function that the doc block is documenting.

When generating docs, the type of the return will b detected by the compiler and inserted into the output.

### @example

```gr
/**
 * @example code
 */
```

The `@example` annotation displaying how the function will be used. Currently only single line examples are allowed.

### @since

```gr
/**
 * @since version
 */
```

The `@since` annotation specifies the [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/) the documenting export was added in.

> ### @history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### @history

```

```gr
/**

>  * @history version description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * @history version: description
```

 */
```

> The `@history` annotation similar to `@since` specifies the [Semantic Version](https://semvar.org/) a change to the documenting feature was made, multiple history annotations can be used in a single docblock. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@history` annotation can be used to share significant changes to the documented code.

This must be provided a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v` before the colon (`:`) and a description of the change after the colon.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When generating docs, will add a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

### @deprecated

```gr
/***
 * @deprecated
 */
```

The `@deprecated` annotation indicates the deprecation of the documenting export. 

````
Moving this up since I want the module and section to be at the bottom

### @module

```gr
/***
 * @module Array: Utilities for working with arrays.
 *
 * @example import Array from "array"
 *
 * @since v0.2.0
 * @history v0.1.0: Originally named `arrays`
 * @history v0.2.0: Renamed to `array`
 */
```

The `@module` annotation allows you to add header documenting to a module. A module docblock can contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` annotations.

### @section

```gr
/***
 * @section Values: Functions for working with the Array data type.
 */
```

The `@section` annotation is used to group exports into catagories. Any docblocks after a given function are grouped under that header.

> ### @deprecated
> 
> ```gr
> /***
>  * @deprecated
>  */
> ```
> 
> The `@deprecated` annotation indicates the deprecation of the documenting export. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: grain doc
---

Grain ships with a documentation generator built directly into the compiler!

> You may be used to similar tools, such as `JSDoc`, that allow you to add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may be used to similar tools, such as JSDoc, that allow you to add a comment above code which describes the input and output types, along with other documentation. Generally, you'll run an external tool against your source code to generate your documentation.
```

In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full power of the compiler. For example, you won't need to specify any types in your doc comments, as the compiler will infer them. 🎉

> Here's a quick example of adding a doc block to your grain code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a quick example of adding a docblock to your grain code:
```

```gr
/**
 * An alias for normal syntactic array access, i.e. `array[n]`.
 *
 * Retrieves the element from the array at the specified index.
 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

## Usage

> Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add doc block comments to your code. Doc block comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above a type declaration or exported value. No docs will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep module internals private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add docblock comments to your code. Docblock comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above a type declaration or exported value. No documentation will be generated for non-exported values so you can keep module internals private.
```

You can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate markdown documentation for your code. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.

> ### Without doc blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Without docblocks
```

> You can even use `grain doc` without doc blocks in your code. It will still generate simple documentation for data types and exported values, such as displaying their names and type signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can even use `grain doc` without docblocks in your code. It will still generate simple documentation for data types and exported values, such as displaying their names and type signatures.
```

> ## Annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attributes
```

### @param

```gr
/**
 * @param name: description
 */
```

> The `@param` attribute indicates a parameter to the function that the doc block is documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@param` attribute indicates a parameter to the function that the docblock is documenting.
```

> The `@param` annotation indicates a parameter to the function that the doc block is documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@param` attribute indicates a parameter to the function that the doc block is documenting.
```

These should be specified in order of the function parameters and the name specified before the colon (`:`) should match the parameter name exactly—while not currently enforced, it will be required for named parameters in the future. The content after the colon is the description of the parameter.

When generating docs, the type of the parameter will be detected by the compiler and inserted into the "Parameters" table.

### @returns

```gr
/**
 * @returns description
 */
```

> The `@returns` attribute indicates the value that is returned by the function that the doc block is documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@returns` attribute indicates the value that is returned by the function that the docblock is documenting.
```

> The `@returns` annotation indicates the value that is returned by the function that the doc block is documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@returns` attribute indicates the value that is returned by the function that the doc block is documenting.
```

> These must be provided a description of the return value. In the Grain stdlib, we don't use the `@returns` annotation if the function returns `Void`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These must be provided a description of the return value. In the Grain stdlib, we don't use the `@returns` attribute if the function returns `Void`.
```

When generating docs, the type of the return value will be detected by the compiler and inserted into the "Returns" table.

### @example

```gr
/**
 * @example code
 */
```

> The `@example` annotation can be added to show how the documented code is used. Currently, only single line examples are allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@example` attribute can be added to show how the documented code is used. Currently, only single line examples are allowed.
```

When generating docs, the code snippet will be wrapped in a code block tagged for the `grain` language and inserted into an "Examples" section.

### @since

```gr
/**
 * @since version
 */
```

> The `@since` annotation can be used to specify when the documented code was added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@since` attribute can be used to specify when the documented code was added.
```

This must be provided a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v`. For example,`v0.2.0` or `0.2.0` are treated the same.

> When generating docs, a `<details>` element titled "Added in X.X.X" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this annotation, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "Added in next" instead of the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, a `<details>` element titled "Added in X.X.X" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "Added in next" instead of the version.
```

### @history

```gr
/**
 * @history version: description
 */
```

> The `@history` attribute can be used to share significant changes to the documented code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@history` attribute provides details on significant changes to the documented code.
```

> The `@history` annotation can be used to share significant changes to the documented code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@history` attribute can be used to share significant changes to the documented code.
```

> This must be provided a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v` before the colon (`:`) and a description of the change after the colon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/) before the colon (`:`) and a description of the change after the colon.
```

> When generating docs, will add a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, adds a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.
```

### @deprecated

```gr
/***

>  * @deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * @deprecated description
```

 */
```

> The `@deprecated` attribute indicates the deprecation of the documenting export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@deprecated` attribute provides a description or reason for the deprecation of the documented code.

This attribute requires a description of the deprecation and will mark the export as deprecated when used.

When generating docs, adds a blockquote containing `**Deprecated:**` and the description immediately below the title.
```

> The `@deprecated` annotation indicates the deprecation of the documenting export. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@deprecated` attribute indicates the deprecation of the documenting export.
```

### @module

```gr
/***
 * @module Array: Utilities for working with arrays.
 *
 * @example import Array from "array"
 *
 * @since v0.2.0
 * @history v0.1.0: Originally named `arrays`
 * @history v0.2.0: Renamed to `array`
 */
```

> The `@module` annotation allows you to add header documenting to a module. A module docblock can contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@module` attribute allows you to add header documenting to a module. A module docblock can contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` attributes.
```

### @section

```gr
/***
 * @section Values: Functions for working with the Array data type.
 */
```

> The `@section` annotation is used to group exports into catagories. Any docblocks after a given function are grouped under that header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@section` attribute is used to group exports into catagories. Any docblocks after a given function are grouped under that header.
```

When generating docs, the code snippet will be wrapped in a code block tagged for the `grain` language and added to an "Examples" section.

### @since

```gr
/**
 * @since version
 */
```

The `@since` attribute provides the version in which the documented code was added.

This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v`. For example,`v0.2.0` or `0.2.0` are treated the same.

When generating docs, a `<details>` element titled "Added in X.X.X" will be added above the type signature. When this attribute is specified, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "Added in next", instead of the version.

### @history

```gr
/**
 * @history version: description
 */
```

The `@history` attribute provides details on significant changes to the documented code.

This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/) before the colon (`:`) and a description of the change after the colon.

> When generating docs, adds a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be inserted above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, adds a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be added above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.
```

### @deprecated

```gr
/***
 * @deprecated description
 */
```

The `@deprecated` attribute provides a description or reason for the deprecation of the documented code.

This attribute requires a description of the deprecation and will mark the export as deprecated when used.

When generating docs, adds a blockquote containing `**Deprecated:**` and the description immediately below the title.

### @module

```gr

> /***
>  * @module Array: Utilities for working with arrays.
>  *
>  * @example import Array from "array"
>  *
>  * @since v0.2.0
>  * @history v0.1.0: Originally named `arrays`
>  * @history v0.2.0: Renamed to `array`
>  */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/**
 * @module title: description
 */
```

```

> The `@module` attribute allows you to add header documenting to a module. A module docblock can contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@module` attribute provides top-level information about a file, including the module title and a description.

This special attribute is used within a docblock comment that is not attached to a type declaration or exported value. It can only be specified once per file and should exist near the top.

The `@module` docblock comment can also contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` attributes that will add their corresponding output to the top of the documentation.

When generating docs, adds the description at the top of the documentation, and a [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) section containing the title.
```

### @section

```gr

> /***
>  * @section Values: Functions for working with the Array data type.
>  */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/**
 * @section subtitle: description
 */
```

```

> The `@section` attribute is used to group exports into catagories. Any docblocks after a given function are grouped under that header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@section` attribute provides a grouping within the documented code.

This attribute requires a subtitle and description. When specified, any docblocks between sections are grouped under the heading.

When generating docs, a subtitle will be added for each section and be followed by the description. If any `@section` attributes are specified, no output will be generated for exports outside of all sections.
```

In Grain, we have provided this as another command via the CLI, and it inherits the full power of the compiler. For example, you won't need to specify any types in your code comments, as the compiler will infer them. 🎉

Here's a quick example of adding a docblock to your grain code:
```gr
/**
 * An alias for normal syntactic array access, i.e. `array[n]`.
 *
 * Retrieves the element from the array at the specified index.
 * A negative index is treated as an offset from the end of the array.
 *
 * @param index: The index to access
 * @param array: The array to access
 * @returns The element from the array
 *
 * @since v0.1.0
 * @history v0.2.0: Argument order changed to data-last
 */
export let get = (index, array) => {
  array[index]
}
```

## Usage

Before running `grain doc`, you'll want to add docblock comments to your code. Docblock comments are started with `/**` and ended with `*/`. They must exist on the line above a type declaration or exported value. No documentation will be generated for non-exported values—to keep module internals private.

> You can run `grain doc <file|dir> -o <file|dir>` to generate markdown documentation for your code. As of Grain v0.5, the `grain doc` command supports directory input to recursively generate documentation for all `.gr` files.

Reviewer 2: "supports directory input" doesn't read well to me.  "allows specifying a directory" perhaps or something similar?

When generating docs, the type of the parameter will be detected by the compiler and added to the parameter's row in the "Parameters" table.

### @returns

```gr
/**
 * @returns description
 */
```

The `@returns` attribute provides information for the return value of the function being documented.

This attribute requires a description of the return value. In the Grain standard library, we don't use the `@returns` attribute if the function returns `Void`.

When generating docs, the type of the return value will be detected by the compiler and added to the row in the "Returns" table.

### @example

```gr
/**
 * @example code
 */
```

The `@example` attribute provides snippets showing how the documented code is used. Currently, only single line examples are allowed.

When generating docs, the code snippet will be wrapped in a code block tagged for the `grain` language and added to an "Examples" section.

### @since

```gr
/**
 * @since version
 */
```

The `@since` attribute provides the version in which the documented code was added.

> This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v`. For example,`v0.2.0` or `0.2.0` are treated the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/), optionally prefixed with `v`. For example,`v0.2.0` and `0.2.0` are treated the same.
```

> When generating docs, a `<details>` element titled "Added in X.X.X" will be added above the type signature. When this attribute is specified, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "Added in next", instead of the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, a `<details>` element titled "Added in X.X.X" will be added above the type signature. When this attribute is specified, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify unreleased versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "Added in next", instead of the version.
```

### @history

```gr
/**
 * @history version: description
 */
```

The `@history` attribute provides details on significant changes to the documented code.

This attribute requires a [Semantic Version](https://semver.org/) before the colon (`:`) and a description of the change after the colon.

> When generating docs, adds a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be added above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify newer versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, adds a history table to the `<details>` element created by the `@since` attribute if both were used; otherwise, a new `<details>` element titled  "History" will be added above the type signature. When using this attribute, you'll be required to specify the `--current-version=X.X.X` flag to the `grain doc` command. This allows you to specify unreleased versions in your source code, and the generated docs will show "next" instead of the version.
```

 */
```

The `@deprecated` attribute provides a description or reason for the deprecation of the documented code.

This attribute requires a description of the deprecation and will mark the export as deprecated when used.

When generating docs, adds a blockquote containing `**Deprecated:**` and the description immediately below the title.

### @module

```gr
/**
 * @module title: description
 */
```

The `@module` attribute provides top-level information about a file, including the module title and a description.

This special attribute is used within a docblock comment that is not attached to a type declaration or exported value. It can only be specified once per file and should exist near the top.

The `@module` docblock comment can also contain `@example`, `@since`, and `@history` attributes that will add their corresponding output to the top of the documentation.

When generating docs, adds the description at the top of the documentation, and a [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) section containing the title.

### @section

```gr
/**
 * @section subtitle: description
 */
```

The `@section` attribute provides a grouping within the documented code.

> This attribute requires a subtitle and description. When specified, any docblocks between sections are grouped under the heading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This special attribute is used within a docblock comment that is not attached to a type declaration or exported value. It requires a subtitle and description. When specified, any docblocks between sections are grouped under the heading.
```

> When generating docs, a subtitle will be added for each section and be followed by the description. If any `@section` attributes are specified, no output will be generated for exports outside of all sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating docs, a subtitle will be added for each section followed by the description. If any `@section` attributes are specified, no output will be generated for exports outside of all sections.
```
